Social media influencers arrived as fast as social media came online, attracting attention to restaurants, businesses and products with pretty pictures and pithy phrases.

There’s no denying the impact that an influencer can have on advertising a business. According to Insider Intelligence’s report on marketing during COVID-19, influencers are on track to be a $15 billion dollar business by 2022, nearly double the $9 billion they generated in 2019. With the pandemic, social media saw a rise in daily use, which heightened influencers’ power.

Amid a pandemic and a fraught political landscape, how social media is used has changed for many, whether it’s adapting to working around COVID-19 or talking about the many social issues that headlined 2020.

“When the pandemic arose, we really had to start thinking about, ‘What do the client’s key audiences need as the client adjusts its operations to COVID-19,’” said Tracie Broom, co-founder and chief strategy officer at Columbia’s Flock and Rally, a full-service creative agency focused on assisting clients with branding, marketing and communication.

When the pandemic began to shut down the local economy, Flock and Rally had to quickly pivot not only their day to day operations, but their marketing strategies with clients, putting a new emphasis on safety.

“For our restaurant clients like Motor Supply and Cantina 76, we have prioritized being transparent and honest with guests about things like precautions being taken, owner responses to the pandemic and the need to support local businesses,” offered Hailey Covell, communications strategist for Flock and Rally.

“Being a hub for information on restaurant hours, precautions, to-go hours and more has also been incredibly important during this time, because people look to social media just as much as they’d look to a website for that type of information these days.”

While marketing firms like Flock and Rally focus on dialing down messages for clients, influencers had a different challenge during the pandemic: figuring out how to continue their day-to-day work in lockdown.

“My view on the responsibility that comes with any amount of influence has definitely changed,” said Emma Waugh. She runs the Instagram account girleatscharleston, where she talks about food and culture in the Lowcountry.

“First with COVID, I was hyper-aware of how sharing about going out to eat could be adding to the problem, so I did my best to spread helpful information about what was/wasn’t safe while also encouraging people to still support local restaurants in other ways,” Waugh reflected.